I've been with Mencap 22 years now.
I'm a colourful character.
I've known Jan Kanch and some of those guys for years and years because Jan Kanch organises
the Mencap discos and dinners and then they do Gateway in Abera on which I've also been
to.
But I belong to the Gateway up here in Aberystwyth.
She was doing self-advocacy and I was doing advocacy group with the centres.
She used to come and be in the buildings and just be an advocate for people that had problems
and you know just be a voice for people to chat to.
So we used to have meeting groups in the centres.
Anything from parking issues to access.
But how they had advocacy came about was through a lady called Claire Turner.
She was with People First and that was my involvement during the 90s.
I think my proudest moment was being a rep at the old Wales People First.
It was about, for me, I always thought it was about working together as a team.
But quite often nobody would like to take out on the responsibility.
So they used to come and see me and I'd say yeah I'll do it but then I realised hang on
a minute I needed help here to actually make this happen.
So that's why I got a bit stressed towards the end and I just thought I've done with this.
I did that for six years.
I chaired one group down in Aberon but I thought I couldn't do it anymore because I had to
have a fish to fry if you like.
I'm a keen swimmer and a keen musician and I'm an author, activist.
I just hope that I was able to make a change in some way even if it's very small.
I went into Daycentre Services to start with.
I did that for 20 years but when I moved up here in 2005 I didn't want to do that anymore.
So I was one of the first people in Curydeacon to have direct payments.
If I've got problems I can always talk to Jan.
Well I played music for them and I've done some drumming and I've performed for them.
They got open day or something or if I get asked would you like to be a part of an event
they're organising.
Yeah I know Beth and Dylan.
They will often ring and say can we come out, we want to come out and see you.
We haven't seen you for ages, can we have a cash out?
Yes come on in.
I wasn't very good at learning.
However when it was music day and swimming day I enjoyed doing them.
Swimming because it gives me freedom to move freely in the water.
Music because I find music therapy for me and it helps keep my fingers going.
We all meet up once a year and everybody comes and it's just oh well we haven't seen you
for ages, how have you been doing?
And these events usually go on until about 11.30.
This time at the Moody Cow but in the past at Seaglin Christmas summer, well it's Christmas
Christmas dinner, Christmas food or ice cream or something.
And then they have one in the summer which could be I don't know chicken, anything really.
It gives us a chance to meet all our friends again and everybody goes and it is busy, busy.
You can't always move around in there, there's so many people.
They're all my friends as far as I'm concerned.
You know even people I haven't met before.
I've always wanted to be out there as a person with a disability even though I kid myself
I don't have a disability.
It doesn't stop me.
It does not stop me.
Hygienx is a physical acting agency that takes people with non-disability and disability
and trains them to become actors and actresses and teaches you about film techniques and
acting for screen and for theatre.
We do all sorts of play games and silly characters role play.
At the minute they're working with doctors so they're doing a lot of role play down in
Cardiff with the doctors.
I've been involved with Unity Festival down in Clenechie.
Unity Festival is a big festival that brings all the Hygienx academies together but there
are about three or four not yet.
What you do is you work on a show and then you take it to something like the Unity Festival
and perform it.
So it's a street theatre.
You get to meet all sorts of different people and what is nice there, there's always different
tutors that come in because I'm involved with the mid academy up here in Aberystwyth which
meets every Monday at half nine to half three.
So it's a full on day.
Two years we didn't do it because of Covid.
Unfortunately it puts a stop on things because I've done a lot of stuff.
When you chat to people and tell them what you do they just go oh bloody hell you put
me to shame.
My proudest moment is being able to be on stages playing or doing dance or doing Hygienx
or but what does keep me going is music.
I've always been surrounded by music and good people.
I was lacking in confidence at some points in my life.
Both with Menkepke, Deacon, Peoplefest and the groups that I was involved with in the
day centres has given me a sense of confidence.
You can talk to Jan about anything and everything.
And if she can't help you then she might be able to give you the right people that you
can get in touch with.
She's another person that gives you the tools to deal with whatever life throws at you.
It's just wonderful to have Jan and Menkepke ready to give you the help.